WHAT IS DISTRIBUTED TRANSACTIONS?
When a microservice architecture decomposes a monolithic system into self-encapsulated services, it can break transactions. This means a local transaction in the monolithic system is now distributed into multiple services that will be called in a sequence.

WHAT IS THE PROBLEM?
In a monolithic system, we have a database system to ensure ACIDity. We now need to clarify the following key problems.
1. How do we keep the transaction atomic?
	In a database system, atomicity means that in a transaction either all steps complete or no steps complete. The microservice-based system does not have a global transaction coordinator by default.
2. Do we isolate user actions for concurrent requests?
	If an object is written by a transaction and at the same time (before the transaction ends), it is read by another request, should the object return old data or updated data?

POSSIBLE SOLUTIONS:
	A. 2pc (two-phase commit)
	B. Saga

---------------------------2PC PATTERN: -----------------------------------------------

ABOUT:	
	1. 2pc is widely used in database systems. For some situations, you can use 2pc for microservices. Just be careful; not all situations suit 2pc and, in fact, 2pc is considered impractical within a microservice architecture
	2. 2pc has two phases: A prepare phase and a commit phase.
	3. In the prepare phase, all microservices will be asked to prepare for some data change that could be done atomically.
	4. Once all microservices are prepared, the commit phase will ask all the microservices to make the actual changes.
	5. Normally, there needs to be a global coordinator to maintain the lifecycle of the transaction, and the coordinator will need to call the microservices in the prepare and commit phases.

BENEFITS:
	1. 2pc is a very strong consistency protocol.
	2. First, the prepare and commit phases guarantee that the transaction is atomic. The transaction will end with either all microservices returning successfully or all microservices have nothing changed. 
	3. Secondly, 2pc allows read-write isolation. This means the changes on a field are not visible until the coordinator commits the changes.

DISADVANTAGES:
	1. it is not really recommended for many microservice-based systems because 2pc is synchronous (blocking).
	2. In a database system, transactions tend to be fast—normally within 50 ms. However, microservices have long delays with RPC calls, especially when integrating with external services such as a payment service. The lock could become a system performance bottleneck.
	3. it is possible to have two transactions mutually lock each other (deadlock) when each transaction requests a lock on a resource the other requires.

----------------------------- SAGA PATTERN ------------------------------------------------ 

ABOUT:
	1. The Saga pattern is another widely used pattern for distributed transactions. 
	2. The Saga pattern is asynchronous and reactive.
	3. The distributed transaction is fulfilled by asynchronous local transactions on all related microservices.
	4. The microservices communicate with each other through an event bus.

BENEFITS:
	1. One big advantage of the Saga pattern is its support for long-lived transactions.
	2. Because each microservice focuses only on its own local atomic transaction, other microservices are not blocked if a microservice is running for a long time.
	3. This also allows transactions to continue waiting for user input. 
	4. Also, because all local transactions are happening in parallel, there is no lock on any object.

DISADVANTAGES:
	1. The Saga pattern is difficult to debug, especially when many microservices are involved
	2. the event messages could become difficult to maintain if the system gets complex.
	3. it does not have read isolation. For example, the customer could see the order being created, but in the next second, the order is removed due to a compensation transaction.

Adding a process manager:
	To address the complexity issue of the Saga pattern, it is quite normal to add a process manager as an orchestrator. The process manager is responsible for listening to events and triggering endpoints.

